# January 11, 2021
It looks like I have to reassure myself that it's right to do things in the order I should be doing them.

Sean asked for a few things WRT to ICMR.
- visualize_fit
- demonstrate of data-wide fit (single LL murd_data -> all LLs -> semantics)
- resources to help develop a narrative surrounding ICMR (why is it worth doing??)

My instinct is to focus more on repository organization: i.e. reorganizing the content in my notebooks to focus on describing my model now rather than how it came to be, reserving journal-formatted stuff for a journal subdirectory. 

My instinct and the objectives Sean's laid out are consistent. I can delist certain notebooks from the sidebar and start from scratch from the index.

## Docker?
What does it take to fit docker into my workflow? And what do I gain?

Shadow doesn't support docker, so that's a nonstarter.

## WSL?
I can develop within Linux instead of Windows now. The main benefit for all this would be less friction handling scripts that Powershell doesn't like to handle. And ensuring co-operation when my codebase moves to the cloud. But would I introduce new friction?

I don't see it working well with stuff like Google Drive, so I'm gonna leave it alone. Glad to have gotten that out my of my system though I guess!

## Wiki?
It's an interesting place to store documents/notes that I don't consider part of the repository proper. Planning documents, theoretical speculation, and so on. But why not within this repository?

## Make?
I want to be able to run a single command to generate my library, docs, and a local preview of those docs. 

To do this, it seems all I have to do is add an extra command to my `makefile`'s `all` section.

I also want it to do the cleaning I want.

## UTF8 Problem?
When I try to build docs, I always get a UTF8 issue. That's super annoying. How do I avoid it?

The `ipynb` file itself seems utf-8 free.

But for some reason, when an html file is generated from it, the µ character is converted into something that's not utf-8 friendly. The solution is this approach to identifying these odd patterns and avoiding violating problematic characters, like apparently the output of Jupyter's %%timeit magic. Whatever!