# January 21, 2021
I really like VSCode, and with Markdown Anywhere I can get syntax highlighting even inside my docstrings. That was the
only real thing keeping me from taking VSCode seriously as a notebook development context. Let's go all in on VSCode.

By Friday I want a CMR implementation and some comparisons with ICMR, plus a serious start to literature review. 

In the meantime, it seems that there are maintenance issues for ICMR that need addressing. Some new issues I can add to
the tracker:

1. ~~Update README to reflect my new abstract.~~ It's more concise and focused. **It does look better!**
2. ~~Working out LateX issues with VSCode's rendering of Markdown?~~. I hope that's doable, as otherwise I have to
   preview on the server and/or in Jupyter, locking me into the software. **I need to put latex wrappers on their own
   lines.**
3. ~~Integrating my fast implementation of ICMR into the library and documentation~~. Right now, all that is
   isolated from my original slow implementation. Furthermore, quirks of my fast implementation may require reworking
   stuff like my model analysis code. **Finished, but took a while.**
4. ~~Fixing bugs noted by Pylance.~~ Some stuff in my visualization code looks shitty. **It was nothing too big. My code base is surprisingly small!
5. **Preventing Markdown Everywhere from Rendering Docstrings In Its Preview**. I hope that's not too hard, but it's
   necessary if I want simpler python script previews. _I'll wait to work on this, as rendering through IPython looks
   pretty neat._
6. **Add motivating example to README**. I expect this to be a fitting example. _Definitely not worth doing
   until my codebase is stable._
7. **Update explanation of pre-experimental memory array**. Avoid mention of Mfc and Mcf.

That's all I can think of for the moment before the real meaty stuff.

