Sean demos a decent way to support collaboration on increments. Notes can be in the draft, specifying what I want them to include. Let's try to embrace that energy as we advance. 

But how? The friction is that I have to update the project YML to include stuff and push changes to the repository.

But that's whatever. I can also always include markdown files with notes I think are relevant for Sean. He can see them in overleaf, and I can point to them. 

He'll prefer to access through latex, though, right? Yeah.

I need an easy way to access YML files from Obsidian. Or I can primarily work in VSCode, turning to Obsidian primarily for the sync.

What am I actually trying to accomplish over the next hour? I'm incredibly unfocused right now, right?

I'm clearly a little torn between working on narrative_cmr, working on my workflow, the autocurator stuff (which might just be an excuse to re-enable league), all the small and big issues with compmemlearn, writing stuff for icmr, and integrating my results into the project.

[[2022-06-15 Narrative Stuff]]

## 2022-06-15 autocurator
I want to finish projects. This is well-motivated and I've already put a lot of work in. But I can't spend work time on it or let myself fall behind on work goals. I want this fking phd. Luckily, League is barely playable through Shadow, at least while I'm at work. So if I keep blocking local league but work on autocurator through shadow, I may be able to prevent myself from deeper indulgence. 

**What would be your first step on this?** Getting a workflow setup. Need 4k on the shadow, and probably the ability to actually code and execute stuff remotely. Then I'll focus on automating "updating" autocurator's assets from patch to patch.

## What work on my workflow am I looking to do?

[[2022-06-15 Batch Processing]]

### Writing


