In regular free recall, there's not much that seems like it would necessitate an instance-based approach.

When you want a trace-selection mechanism, it's easier to do that in an instance model than in a prototype model. 

Hintzman comes up with scenarios where strength-based theories aren't sufficient. If you want to cover judgments of frequency and whatnot.

A judgment of frequency would be difficult for PCMR because of the way everything is tied to the same item, no separate traces. If you see an item five times, even if it's in five different gradually changing contexts, 

We don't want to discourage work with PCMR, but encourage work on ICMR. Can think of as a proxy 

One motive: increase profile of paper by showing this effect and making icmr account for it sort of

Another motive: show that working with iCMR is a good idea even though it's similar to PCMR

Possible ways to encourage work with ICMR:
- Unification. EG: Have model do this and this w/o falling apart.
- Strong trace selection: Use mechanism to account for something that PCMR struggles with.

How necessary is it to have strong trace selection to account for free recall data?

A lot of the work we still need to do:
Make sure story is clear and accessible

Sean wants a take on Lelman and Malmberg's instance model. 

Work model:
- daily-ish check-ins
- get Sean info about which sections I want feedback on

Sean needs results so he can dictate preferred model spec. Then I can draft model spec. I can already keep moving on introduction.

To keep productively going, I should increase circle of stuff I can work on, exploitin loose deadlines to adapt to my mercurial motivation. At the save time, I have to respect minimum requirements of core objective. How? Favorable negotiations. Make myself decide and make trades between one and the other.

Currently failing. why? I'm not following the pact. Do I not have enough self control for even that? Let's suppose I do.