I will want to take the time to review the constraints in Neal's papers surrounding this.

I don't understand these p-value differences. I feel inclined to exclude them from my thinking.

Okay, focus. What am I going to try to finish today?

For cdcatbeh I'd like to...

Outline modeling plan to becky:

This should include my plans to model the conditions hierarchically instead of applying the generalization test since we don't vary distraction enough to support that. I'll consider a lot of ideas, including:

1...That light and heavy distraction events differentially intervene in the encoding process but are otherwise causally inert. We expect this to look like accelerated primacy decay and contextual drift in the heavy condition because context is drifting and primacy is decaying in the distraction events as well as the study events. 

2...That distraction specifically impairs progressive attentional control to a trough value across study events. In other words, it really only impacts primacy decay while leaving everything else alone.

3...That distraction impairs the ability to integrate incoming information into context. In other words, its primary effect is a reduction of temporal contextual drift in the heavy distraction condition. 

Actually, it seems I'll want to consider a lot of ideas.

We might take a hierarchical modeling approach where we fit the same model parameters across conditions but allow a selection of parameters to differ between conditions. If fits are particularly good when we allow a particular parameter to differ between conditions, we might take that as evidence that the participants really do behave differently in a way controlled by the model. This is basically a more controlled test of which parameters really matter between conditions. With this approach, we assume a "parameter variation" account of distraction effects in free recall: that the model and its mechanisms are correct and both apply across study conditions, but that a difference in a subset of model parameters between conditions explains differences in our observations. The hope is that we'll find a small subset of parameters that need to be freed between conditions to get fits that are as good as those you obtain from freeing all the parameters across conditions. Once we identify that subset, we can brainstorm and specify a mechanism that enforces all those parameter differences. For example, the intervening events mechanism we were considering can enforce faster contextual drift and faster primacy decay entirely in terms of variation of a "distraction scale" parameter.

Limitations though...There's a ceiling to how impressive these results can be unless they also do something like:
- rule out alternative plausible explanations of distraction effects
- derive (and test) interesting new behavioral predictions from our mechanism
- show that our results generalize to novel conditions
- fit even better to our data than if we just fit the model entirely separately between conditions

Furthermore, this strategy starts with the rather strong assumption that the model we're using is basically a good account of behavior across our conditions, and that differences in model parameters (instead of mechanisms) are the main reason we see any differences between them.

And then there's the possibility that our assumption that the model is basically well-specified across conditions is wrong. But the hope is that this approach will help us build a more concrete grasp of where the model fails -- and give us deliverables even if we don't find the magic mechanism since we will inevitably at least specify a mechanism that can account for covariance in model parameters across conditions.

one of the model mechanisms is underspecified in a way that 

Show becky how the different parameters vary here to 

***

does distraction help pattern separation??
use neural representations as my item representations

can we get item representations of each item as it's encoded in CMR, pull out the context representations at that moment. Compare with category representation. 

Compare similarity to category representation. 

context repsentation

Context 

