11:00
The last thing I did yesterday before losing focus was start the "Issue note" idea using the [[Planning the ICMR Landing Page]] note, and sketching out my plans for what a landing page will consist of. I definitely like the workflow.

11:37
I'm interested in being interested in blowing off time, it seems? 

Part of me wants to go through the trouble of extending my issue note list, but I'll wait on that. Well actually, idk.

Issues from compmemlearn include...
[[narrative_cmr - Refactor and finish analyses of landscape, scmr models]]
[[reports - Refactor Generalization Test Code into Distinct Report Template]]
[[models - Clear Up Outcome of Evaluation of Delay Drift Rate Parameter]]
[[models - Clean Up and Document Relevant and Defunct Model Implementations]]
[[instance_cmr - Integrate Single Stack and Two Stack ICMR Evaluations]]
[[repfr - Refactor and Document Key Model Analysis Functions From RepFR]]
[[reports.subjectwise_model_evaluation.template - Refactor Novel Functions From Subjectwise Model Comparison Template]]
[[fitting - Document Selective Likelihood-Based Model Evaluation]]
[[analyses.recall_probability_by_lag - Extend plot_rpl to support different designs than Lohnas 2014 Dataset]]
[[analyses.recall_probability_by_lag - Add jitter or other control to make default plot_rpl figure cleaner]]
[[analyses - Finish refactoring assets from Measuring_Repetition_Effects notebook]]
[[analyses.conditional_stop_probability - Tests and plotting function for Conditional Stop Probability code]]
[[analyses.lag_crp - Organize and clarify tests for lag contiguity analysis]]
[[analyses.neighbor_contiguity - Finish implementation and test for neighbor contiguity analysis]]
[[fitting - document code for performing fits by phenomenal level mean squared error instead of log likelihood]]
[[analyses - Upgrade plotting code to support different trial queries per data set]]
[[datasets - consistently track item level features in my simulate_DF_from_events and related code]]
[[analyses.repetition_contiguity - add convincing tests for repetition contiguity analysis]]
[[analyses.repetition_contiguity - Implement plot repetition contiguity function]]
[[general - Don't leave numba jit on by default]]
[[clarify guiding rules for library organization]]

And that's not a comprehensive list.

12:58
But the plan is to focus on requirements for pushing ICMR forward. So back to [[Planning the ICMR Landing Page]].

18:28
Once again, I've taken way more time than I expected to. But what happens next? 

I think it's time to work. There's always more organization I can and will do, but once I have enough background clarified that I can focus on deliverables, then organization is of secondary interest.

Work now is