**So how's it going?** By our Monday meeting, I wanted to address Sean's commets and update my resutls section. The results section was supposed to be updated Wednesday. I haven't directly progressed on either objective.

I still feel some sort of mental block keeping me from doing it. What is the block? Don't I already have plans? What are they...

[[2022-06-15 Batch Processing]] helps clarify goals and motivation for batch processing step I want to enforce.

[[Goal-Pass All Fitting Results to Sean]] has notes surrounding plan for passing fitting results to Sean. Clarifies intention to generalize batch processing flow to work locally, clarifies plans for fitting reports template outputs into paper workflow.

It seems that I've already done some initial work to generalize the report template. But the problem is that I can't yet apply the report template to existing reports w/o a dance w/ the remote assets on ACCRE. I do believe I've already drafted an approach to that problem.


Current version is in `instance_cmr_dispatch.sh` in ACCRE. I should maybe create a [[general - specify and optimize Report Templates Workflow]] file that specifies the entire sequence of operations that generates results for a range of parameters.

Okay, let's do the thing.

Be specific. What first? Match directory structure. @5m

Side issues:
Data doesn't match cookiecutter project structure that I like. 

```nohighlight
├── data
│   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
│   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
│   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
│   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
```

I shouldn't worry about this right now!

What has me stuck now? Rather than try to organize and then write the generator, let's get the generator working then address any issues.

That means updating dispatch.slurm and everything else in the flowchart until it updates reports in parallel and inside my specified project as I planned.