# January 10, 2021

## Getting Started
I don't know where to start.

### Jupyter 3
Let's start with things I know need to get done and are easy. I'll upgrade to Jupyter 3 and understand the upgrade notes. 

I conclude that it's actually important to stick with JupyterLab 2 since all the extensions I like are outdated with respect to Jupyter Lab 3.0. I hope I can revert changes without a lot of disruption. I'll stick to Jupyter 2.0 for as long as I can - that is until I see a cant-miss feature that I can only get with Jupyter 3.

Wait, maybe I speak too soon. Which extensions do I truly need?

My extensions:
- `git`. It supports version control, but do I really use this? Not really; Github Desktop has been easier, and I might prefer the separation, especially while I'm using apps besides Jupyter.
- `latex`. I'm not sure yet. At the moment, VSCode's editor seems better. And Overleaf is technically preferred.
- `toc` is built into Jupyter.
- `collapsible_headings` is helpful, for sure. But perhaps a crutch in publication contexts. I'd like to keep it.
- `execute-time`. Also very useful. Gives me code timings even when I haven't planned to track them.
- `jupytext`. Absolutely critical, probably. Though I have been looking to move away, or at least focus on CLI options.
- `onedarkpro`. I genuinely like this color theme! 
- `variableinspector`. I never actually use this, but I know variable inspection is super useful during testing. Functional programming makes the variable inspector useless outside the context of a debugger, though.
- `nbdime`. Notebook diffs. Has been useful, sure.  

`toc` is built in. 

`jupytext` may not need the update. I never used the extra command palette options provided.

`nbdime` and `git` aren't supported yet but it seems likely to happen soon. `latex` is on course, too, but currently not supported.

`collapsible_headings` is a small repo, but is at least on developer's radar. `execute_time`, too, but dev says could take a bit of time.

no comment at all for the `onedarkpro` extension. just on community radar for `variableinspector`. 

Again, I can surely survive without any of these. But what's the bang for buck?

I really like the Language Server Protocol integration (code navigation + hover suggestions + linters + autocompletion + rename). It's something I noticed was missing after working a bit in VSCode that made that IDE preferable for writing new code instead of merely for debugging it. Considering that the debugger outperforms `variableinspector`, I lose `git`, `latex`, `execute_time`, `collapsible_headings` and `onedarkpro`. 

That's a lot. And oddly, `onedarkpro` is probably most important. Maybe this is an opportunity for me to get into extension building? Okay,  making the jump, but tracking what I want in 3.0.

Besides LSP integration and the return of certain above extensions, the last feature I'd need for VSCode to be mostly redundant (besides stuff like marp and the latex workshop) is a visual debugger with full functionality - specifically the ability to work in an interactive session where the debugger is paused. I have to be comfortable with 3.0 for that to be even in the cards.

I have the LSP set up. Next is the visual debugger. Even easier.

I still wish I could make slides in Jupyter. But there's an easy way: just use Marp or another MD to slide deck tool and preview as a separate window. I don't get notebooks-that-are-slides in the same way, but it's close enough. It's nice to realize that there are alternatives to marp that might help me address the single column and content fitting issues. Need to make sure they all also support export-to-ppt and speaker notes options, though!

Anything that effectively previews markdown files in useful formats w/ low enough latency is a jupyter extension when I have jupytext. Could probably easily make a simple tool that extends those to IPYNB, or update the relevant options to accept IPYNB as an input, idk. But jupytext is close enough, so whatever.

Latex is high latency; that's still why I avoid it.

Okay, vanquished. 

I was gonna target onedarkpro next but for now I'm actually happy with regular dark mode. But when I'm feeling energetic again, maybe I'll look at migration.

### Google's Developer Documentation Style Guide
I'll feel like everything I'm doing is wrong until I read through its sections on linking, formatting, organization, etc.

In general, I'm looking for clearer strategy for organizing distinct but related units of text - e.g. sectioning. It'll help with writing solid literature overviews, presentations, all that. But I just sort of wing all that.

Chicago Manual of Style might be a relevant resource. There's also the APA guide. Microsoft also offers a writing style guide. Apple, IBM, and Red Hat have some too?

Let me highlight some points I see as especially interesting, stuff corrective of stuff I might do.

#### Approach
If you're having trouble expressing something, step back and ask yourself, "What am I trying to say?" Often, the answer you give yourself reveals what you should be saying in the document.

#### Tone
Be conversational and friendly without being frivolous.

Aim, in your documents, for a voice and tone that's conversational, friendly, and respectful without being overly colloquial or frivolous; a voice that's casual and natural and approachable, not pedantic or pushy. Try to sound like a knowledgeable friend who understands what the developer wants to do.

Don't try to write exactly the way you speak; you probably speak more colloquially and verbosely than you should write, at least for developer documentation. But aim for a conversational tone rather than a formal one.

Don't try to be super-entertaining, but also don't aim for super-dry. Be human, let your personality show, be memorable; you can even be a little funny now and then. But remember that the primary purpose of the document is to provide information to someone who's looking for it.

Even if you're having trouble hitting the right tone, make sure you're communicating useful information in a clear and direct way; that's the most important part.

#### Documenting Future Features
Avoid trying to document future features or products, even in innocuous ways.

#### Link text
When you're writing link text, use a phrase that describes what the reader will see after following the link. 

Don't use the phrase click here or this document. It's bad for accessibility and bad for scannability. Don't use a URL as link text. Instead, use the page title or a description of the page.

eg: To begin coding right away, read [Building your first app]().

When a cross-reference includes information that describes what the cross-reference links to, use about instead of on.

In the rare case when a cross-reference isn't a link, use italics or quotation marks as appropriate. Italics for full-length works. Quotation marks for sections, short works, etc.

When you're linking to another section in the same page, let the reader know that the link takes you to a different section of the same page. 

#### Use second person and imperative senses
Avoid "we" and "our", avoid phrasings like "you'll need", too.

#### Use Active Voice
I often think it's okay not to.

#### Put conditional clauses before instructions, not after.

#### In document titles and headings, use sentence case. 
That is, capitalize only the first word in the title, the first word in a subheading after a colon, and any proper nouns or other terms that are always capitalized a certain way.

#### Images Are Ideally SVG
SVGs stay sharp when you zoom in on the image. PNG is next preference.

Use images only when they provide useful visual explanations of information that is otherwise difficult to express with words, or for screenshots of UIs that are important to the discussion.

#### In most cases, you should precede a list with an introductory sentence.
Always introduce a list with a complete sentence, not a partial one that's completed by the list items.

The sentence can end with a colon or a period; usually a colon if it immediately precedes the list, usually a period if there's more material (such as a note paragraph) between the introduction and the list.

Use the same syntax/structure for all list items in a given list, if possible.

#### Avoid making excessive or unsupported claims about products and services.

#### Don’t create your own abbreviations.
Use recognizable and industry-standard acronyms and initialisms. Abbreviations are intended to save the writer and the reader time. If the reader has to think about an abbreviation, it can slow down their reading comprehension.

In general, when an abbreviation is likely to be unfamiliar to the audience, spell out the first mention of the term and immediately follow with the abbreviation, in parentheses. For all subsequent mentions of the abbreviation, use the abbreviation by itself.

In some cases, spelling out a term doesn't help the reader understand the term. For example, writing out portable document format doesn't help the reader understand what a PDF document is. In those cases, don't spell out the term.

#### Prefer English terms over Latin abbreviations. 
Don't use i.e. or e.g.; instead, use that is or for example, respectively. One exception: it's okay to use etc. in some circumstances.

#### Don't attribute human qualities to software or hardware.

#### Contractions are okay, but not those from nouns and verbs

#### Don't put optional plurals in parentheses.
Instead of putting optional plurals in parentheses, use either plural or singular constructions and keep things consistent throughout your docset. Choose what is most appropriate for your docset and your audience. If it's important in a specific context to indicate both, use one or more.

#### In general, use present tense rather than future tense

#### Use the form Creates a Map object rather than Create a Map object
When you're writing reference documentation for a method, phrase the main method description in terms of what the method does (gets, lists, creates, searches), rather than what the developer would use it to do (get, list, create, search).

It's a subtle distinction that manifests mostly in whether the initial verb in the description has an -s at the end or not.

#### Use the Oxford Comma

#### place a comma after an introductory word or phrase

#### Commas separating two independent clauses
When a coordinating conjunction (and, but, or, nor, for, so, or yet) separates two independent clauses, insert a comma after the first clause (before the conjunction) unless both clauses are very short.

#### Commas separating independent from dependent clauses
When an independent clause and a dependent clause are separated by a coordinating conjunction, insert a comma only if the sentence could be misunderstood without one.

#### Setting off other kinds of clauses
In general, put a comma before the word which at the start of a nonrestrictive clause. For more on this topic, see this guide's section on relative pronouns, and Grammar Girl's page on which versus that.

In general, put a semicolon or a period or a dash before a conjunctive adverb, such as otherwise, however, or therefore, and put a comma after the conjunctive adverb.
In general, don't use a comma before the causal conjunction because unless it is being used at the start of a nonrestrictive clause. For more information, see the Chicago Manual of Style Q&A entry on using commas with because.

#### Em dashes
To indicate a break in the flow of a sentence—or an interruption—use an em dash, also known as a long dash. Don't put a space before or after it.

Turn num lock on, then hold down the left Alt key and type 0151 on the numeric keypad.

Don't use an en dash (the shorter dash) or a hyphen in place of an em dash.
 
#### Ellipses
Ellipses indicate the omission of part of a sentence, paragraph, or larger block of text where the omission is not pertinent to the understanding of the subject at hand.

#### Exclamation Point
Rather than using exclamation points to call attention to an important point, consider using notices such as "Note" or "Caution."

#### Be Suspicious of Parentheses
Make sure they're necessary; it's usually better to set the content off.

#### Whenever possible, avoid putting URLs in text.
Rewrite the sentence so that the URL isn't at the end of the sentence. Put the URL on a separate line from the text, omitting the final period.

#### Avoid footnotes
They aren't accessible and can present challenges for localization efforts. Instead of a footnote, consider using the following formats to convey information: Add a link. Use a note. Put it in a parenthetical.

#### Don't use empty headings or headings with no associated content.
Not recommended:
```
## Migrating VMs to Compute Engine
### Designing the migration
```

#### Referring to Subsections
In a section of the page that summarizes the following subheadings—for example, an H2 section that discusses the following H3 sections—use the phrase in the following sections to connect the headings together. Don't use the phrases in this section or in these sections because these phrases are too ambiguous.

#### use italics for drawing attention to terms in the body or prose of your content

#### Pluralize a single letter by adding apostrophe-s.

#### Spell out all ordinal numbers in text.

#### In most cases, introduce a procedure with an introductory sentence. 
This introductory sentence should provide context to the reader that isn't part of the section heading.

When a step has sub-steps, treat the step like an introductory sentence: put a colon or a period at the end of the step, as appropriate.

In general, use one step per action. However, you can combine small actions into one step, using angle brackets (>) for sequential menu selections.

#### Multiple procedures for the same task
In general, if there is more than one way to complete a task, pick one procedure to document that is accessible for all users.

If all of the procedures need to be documented, use separate headings or pages or tabs to separate the procedures to make it clear to the reader that this is an alternative way to complete the same task.

#### Use concise procedures to avoid repetitiveness

#### If the user must press Enter after a step, then include that instruction as part of the step.

#### State the purpose of the action before stating the action.

#### Write in the order that the reader needs to follow.
State the location of the action before stating the action. If there are multiple headings associated with a set of procedures, restate the location of the action in the first step of each procedure, even if the location is the same as in the previous procedure.

#### Other procedure guides
Use complete sentences.
Use parallel structure.
When there's more than one way to do something, give only the best way. Giving alternate ways can confuse users.
Don't include keyboard shortcuts.
Don't use directional language to orient the reader, such as above, below, or right-hand side. This type of language doesn't work well for accessibility or for localization. If a UI element is hard to find, provide a screenshot.

#### When to use a table
When each item is three or more pieces of related data. Otherwise use lists.

#### Always precede a table with an introductory sentence that describes the purpose of the table.

#### API Reference
When you're documenting an API, provide a complete API reference, typically generated from source code using doc comments that describe all public classes, methods, constants, and other members.

The API reference must provide a description for each of the following:
- Every class, interface, struct, and any other similar member of the API (such as union types in C++).
- Every constant, field, enum, typedef, etc.
- Every method, with a description for each parameter, the return value, and any exceptions thrown.

On each unique page (for a class, interface, etc.), include a code sample (~5-20 lines) at the top.

Put all API names, classes, methods, constants, etc. in code font, and link each name to the corresponding reference page. Most document generators do this automatically for you.

Put string literals in code font, and enclose them in double quotation marks. For example, XML attribute values might be "wrap_content" or "true".

Put parameter names in italic. For example, when you refer to the parameters of a method like doSomething(Uri data, int count), italicize the names data and count.

#### What to Include in Additional Documentation
In the first sentence of a class description, briefly state the intended purpose or function of the class or interface with information that can't be deduced from the class name and signature. In additional documentation, elaborate on how to use the API, including how to invoke or instantiate it, what some of the key features are, and any best practices or pitfalls.

In the first sentence for a method description, briefly state what action the method performs. In subsequent sentences, explain why and how to use the method, state any prerequisites that must be met before calling it, give details about exceptions that may occur, and specify any related APIs.

Document any dependencies (such as Android permissions) that are needed to call the method, and how the method behaves if such a dependency is missing (for example, "the method throws a SecurityException" or "the method returns null").

Begin descriptions of non-boolean parameters with "The" or "A" if possible:

The ID of the bird you want to get.

A description of the bird.

For boolean parameters for requesting an action, start sentences with "If true ..." and "If false ...."—for example:

If true, turn traffic lines on. If false, turn them off.
For boolean parameters for setting the state of something (not making a request), use the format "True if ...; false otherwise."—for example:

True if the zoom is set; false otherwise.
In this context, don't put the words "true" and "false" in code font or quotation marks.

Be as brief as possible in the return value's description; put any detailed information in the class description.

If the return value is anything other than a boolean, start with "The ...."—for example:

The bird specified by the given ID.
If the return value is a boolean, use the format "True if ...; false otherwise."—for example:

True if the bird is in the sanctuary; false otherwise.

#### Command line stuff
If your command-line instructions show multiple lines of input, then start each line of input with the $ prompt symbol.

### What Would It Take to Extend Jupyter?
All source code is written in TypeScript. Probably have to learn that first.

Their testing framework seems like too much to me to be honest. There's no guide here to making sense of the codebase, which is reasonable, I suppose.

Actually, there is a codebase orientation and guide to design patterns that would help a lot. But I'll probably focus on extension migration in the short term. 

### Do I Have Any Use for Dashboards?
Dashboards I'm familiar with are those like champion.gg or the COVID-19 dashboards reporting useful statistics/visualizations of a dynamic (or not so dynamic) data state. My notebooks themselves are already dashboards, but they aren't organized as efficiently for that purpose: they're documents and don't try as hard to display visualizations efficiently. That's what dashboards are supposed to be about. They assume knowledge about the context of each visualization, more or less.

> Data dashboard is an information management tool that visually tracks, analyzes and displays key performance indicators (KPI), metrics and key data points to monitor the health of a business, department or specific process. 

They're good for making dynamic reports to Sean. But in science, we just use figures.

A dashboard w/ configurable parameters would be great for characterizing the performance of different computational models of the same phenomenon. 

When I have a lot of figures to show, and especially when it's a mix of images, tables, and so on, then that dashboard extension might be a better tool than fiddling with MATPLOTLIB forever. I guess that's why Excel is so appealing! WYSIWYG data analysis!

Oh god. I'm starting to understand why people bother with Excel. Same reason I bother with Google Slides. Code-free is often easier.

### Do I Wanna Bother With Excel?
I never get to just look at my data anymore, and my science might be suffering as a result. But I can't think of any concrete costs of living the way I do - certainly not a $99 a year cost. What is excel for???

I'm obsessing too much over this. Also there's the question of reproducibility I want to think about. If I want to do quick stuff in Excel, I want there to be a way to convert thta back to Python code, too. I think such a thing exists, and was discussed on reddit, but I have to find it first.

The next time I want to make a report centering some dataset and multiple analyses, I'll try a spreadsheet-focused approach. But again, if I really wanted a dashboard, I could use this new thing I just found out about. Idk, I really don't.

To ease into it, I'll at least get Excel et al my computer so I can think of options.

One benefit of a spreadsheet format for my data: I can look at it on my phone.

### Can I do NBDev Without the Docs Stuff?
So what's NBDev supposed to handle for me? 

Bigpicturewise, it's supposed to make developing a codebase, documentation, and associates the same process localized in the same place: my notebooks. 

> Implementing literate programming consists of two steps:
> 
> Weaving: Generating a comprehensive document about the program and its maintenance.
> Tangling: Generating machine executable code
> Weaving and tangling are done on the same source so that they are consistent with each other.

> The documentation for a literate program is produced as part of writing the program. Instead of comments provided as side notes to source code a literate program contains the explanation of concepts on each level, with lower level concepts deferred to their appropriate place, which allows for better communication of thought. The snippets of the literate wc above show how an explanation of the program and its source code are interwoven. Such exposition of ideas creates the flow of thought that is like a literary work. Knuth wrote a "novel" which explains the code of the interactive fiction game Colossal Cave Adventure.[18]

So the idea is to introduce components of my program the way I'd do its documentation according to Google's Style Guide: 

> Aim, in your documents, for a voice and tone that's conversational, friendly, and respectful without being overly colloquial or frivolous; a voice that's casual and natural and approachable, not pedantic or pushy. Try to sound like a knowledgeable friend who understands what the developer wants to do.

But what about a science project? A library for reporducing a series of analyses? Well, what is a developer trying to do if they're looking at the docs for instance_cmr? They're either trying to assess the value of my model and/or associated analyses, or trying to use or extend it. 

So if what I've heard elsewhere is true, rather than outlining how I got to what I know and have created, I should be outlining what I know/how I made it and how _I know_ it's true and useful. That makes it really different from a journal, which is all about documenting process. How do I negotiate the two?

The main write-up (i.e. my paper and arguably the "core" entries of my notebook collection) can lay out the core explanation of what I've found/made and how it's true/useful.

Extra notebooks can detail supporting and supplementary work, which in their own self-contained consists of the review and justification of some product. Primacy in my docs is determined by how fully/efficiently a work conveys my thesis than its relative timing.

On the other hand, small details can/must come first if they're necessary for grasping the bigger argument. But look at nbdev. He gives big picture, the big proof, and then offers supporting details in further notebooks. 

What is this (what did you make/find)?
Why does this matter?
How can I make this mine, too (installation/methodology)?
How does it work? Does it really work? (results, tests, implementation details)
What if I want to know more? (supplementary stuff)

That's the vague match between documentation and scientific writing. The meat is what's new and what it means to the reader, and the dressing is the details proving it's all real.

A final ICMR, then, will have a notebook structure like this:

*Overview*. Abstract and introduction, starting with a summary of the project, then a more detailed explanation of why the project exists and what it achieves, plus normal readme stuff like: a motivating example, quick setup instructions, final boilerplate like references.

*Specification*. Serious specification of model and usage examples. Could be end-to-end, demonstrating stuff like fitting to arbitrary recall data, proof of advantages over previous state of the art, etc, or could be spread out over more than one notebook. (E.g., the whole paper)

Then groups of other stuff. Like all the helper functions supporting model analysis. And all the other models compared to the central model (vanilla cmr/minerva, prototypes, etc). Scientific notes, simulations, analyses, benchmarks, etc. extraneous wrt core report. And so on.

It's not really so mysterious.

I wish `nbdev` were sphinx-based instead of jekyll. But all I really need is better formatting of docstrings and support for subheadings or grouped headings in the TOC.

What can I try to make `nbdev`'s doc support more attractive?

- *Custom sidebar.* Maybe it supports parent-child relationships between pages. 
- *Structured TOC in overview*. That helps a bit.
- *External hosting for private repository*. I want a url no one will find for a repository that's literally private to our organization.
- *Formatted attribute lists, etc, extracted from docstrings*. It might be as simple as writing docstrings like markdown and not making such a big fuss about it.

I have to prioritize development where it matters, so filling the codebase out with tests while necessary might just happen organically. The key thing to keep in mind, I think, is not to throw away tests I'm already doing as part of my process of iterative development anymore, and to instead integrate them into my documentation narrative.

As I get better at thinking this way, documentation will become more and more like planning out and writing a novel. Well, a guidebook.

### What next?
I'll focus on ICMR so I can further flesh out this literate programming schtick. I'll get the ICMR repo to build properly. Then I'll mess with sidebar customization and docstring formatting. Then I'll look at external hosting on my digital ocean server. Then I'll get to work on my core notebooks and the project's overall organization, integrating Sean's request for a model writeup into my priorities.

I still have issues getting UTF-8 handled right. But otherwise sidebar customization, docstring formatting, docs hosting for private repos, all handed.

What's left is writing up ICMR like it's really getting closed to done.

