# Initial Motivation
We're building an exemplar model of context maintenance and retrieval. Here I try to review the ideas and questions that motivated this project, before any detailed literature review happened. I go over Sean's Project Brainstorm notes that were stored in the Lab Drive's Projects directory and connect them to my grasp of early discussions he and I had about it. Further notes might clarify this prior base of thinking, but usually it would be better to concentrate these notes to newer sections focused on literature review, model specification, and simulation-driven analysis.

Sean's been brainstorming about this project since 2017 at the latest. To serve study of semantic memory, he proposed developing a semantic code using multiple-trace / instance-based framework. Creation of a semantic memory means adding a stable representation to the repertoire of likely states for the network, i.e., adding a stable state, an attractor, i.e., a line on the memory stack. This raises a basic question: can individual entries in the memory stack be altered, or can everything be explained by some alternative model where there is simply a profusion of instances and memory effects arise from the probing of that set of instances?

He elaborated on the potential correspondence between multiple trace models and the brain this way: Neurons communicate with one another through a web of synaptic connections. Each synapse in our model represents some amalgamated and abstracted version of likely tens or hundreds of thousands of synapses. For a particular pattern of neural activity to become stable and retrievable, it must leave its mark on this synaptic web. The same synaptic web must support all the memories in the memory stack, that is, there is one set of connections between these neurons that is used to make each pattern a stable state (if it is activated, the system can keep it activated, at least for some reasonable amount of time).  Each trace, each vector in the stack, is an abstraction. In a neural network model, the equivalent of this MINERVA-style (Hintzman, 1984) memory trace is a matrix describing the alteration to each synaptic connection as a consequence of the corresponding experience (and any other effects the experience has on network dynamics). As such, the distinction between a pure instance model and a connectionist model of memory allowing for modification of traces may become fuzzy.

Is there really a correspondence between instance and connectionist models in this sense? That question might be approached formally, but another approach might be to answer by demonstration: with a model implemented from one scheme that can also do things doable by state of the art models of the other scheme. A multiple-traces model where trace features in part track drifting context may be able to do exactly this, taking the core theoretical contributions of the connectionist Context Maintenance and Retrieval model and putting them into an instance-theoretic framework.

We are of course interested in this sort of model for reasons beyond the question of whether instance and connectionist models correspond in some way to one another. Indeed, the main reason we're interested in an Instance-CMR is that we hope the synthesis it represents will lead to novel modeling achievements. A multiple traces model seems uniquely well-suited for modeling generalization from discrete experiences to form generic semantic knowledge. It would be very convenient if the structure of memory could be modeled with a simple stack of traces! Models like CMR mostly describe changes in **associations** between memory representations during experience and explain how these changes might organize responses during sequential recall tasks focused on retrieval of specific episodes from memory. Specifying the range of phenomena an Instance-CMR model should account for is a matter for literature review, and eventually simulation. But the big hope is still that an Instance-CMR could help drive progress toward an integrated model of semantic and episodic memory.

How can the mechanisms and performance of the Context Maintenance and Retrieval model of memory be instantiated within a multiple traces model? Does a model specified this way account for a broader variety of memory phenomena that the classical instance and connectionist CMR models could not? Or does it fail to account for some phenomena that a pure instance-theoretic or connectionist model framework can account for more readily? Are there some phenomena that a prospective Instance-CMR might be particularly well-suited for explaining? These questions organize our work on this project.